Add PayPal Android SDK integration guide (#429)
paypal/android-sdk: Docs/IntegrationGuide.md

    participant Server as Your Server
    participant PayPal as PayPal APIs

    App->>Server: Create order
    Server->>PayPal: Orders v2 API (create)
    PayPal-->>Server: orderId
    Server-->>App: orderId
    App->>SDK: start(checkoutRequest)
    SDK->>PayPal: Check app switch eligibility
    PayPal-->>SDK: Eligible + launch URL
    SDK->>PayPalApp: Launch PayPal app
    Note over PayPalApp: Customer approves payment
    PayPalApp-->>App: Return intent (deep link)
    App->>SDK: finishStart(intent)
    SDK-->>App: orderId, payerId
    App->>Server: Capture/authorize order
    Server->>PayPal: Orders v2 API (capture)
    PayPal-->>Server: Confirmation
    Server-->>App: Order captured
```

**Card payment flow:**

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    participant App as Your Android App
    participant SDK as PayPal SDK
    participant Server as Your Server
    participant PayPal as PayPal APIs

    App->>Server: Create order
    Server->>PayPal: Orders v2 API (create)
    PayPal-->>Server: orderId
    Server-->>App: orderId
    App->>SDK: approveOrder(cardRequest)
    SDK->>PayPal: Confirm payment source (REST API)
    PayPal-->>SDK: Approval result

>     SDK-->>App: Success or AuthorizationRequired

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    SDK-->>App: Success or Authorization Required
```

    App->>Server: Capture/authorize order
    Server->>PayPal: Orders v2 API (capture)
    PayPal-->>Server: Confirmation
    Server-->>App: Order captured
```

---

## How the PayPal Android SDK works

The SDK handles the client-side portion of your payment integration. For card payments, the SDK submits card data directly to PayPal using encrypted channels and returns a result your server uses to capture or authorize the order. For PayPal payments, the SDK launches a checkout experience where the customer logs in and approves the payment. When the customer finishes, PayPal redirects them back to your app using a deep link. Your server then captures or authorizes the approved order using the Orders v2 API.

### App switch vs. Chrome Custom Tab

The SDK supports two ways to present PayPal checkout:

> - **App switch** — If the customer has the PayPal app installed and the merchant opts in with `appSwitchWhenEligible = true`, the SDK checks eligibility with PayPal's backend. If eligible, the SDK launches the PayPal app directly. This provides a native experience where the customer may already be logged in, reducing friction.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **App switch** — If the customer has the PayPal app installed and you set `appSwitchWhenEligible = true` in your app, the SDK checks eligibility with PayPal's backend. If eligible, the SDK launches the PayPal app directly. This provides a native experience where the customer may already be logged in, reducing friction.
```
nit: There is a tone inconsistency I noticed. In the diagram, we say "Your Android App," and here we say "the merchant." It feels like we should pick one or the other, otherwise it looks like this doc was written for two different audiences.

- **Chrome Custom Tab** — The default experience. The SDK opens a Chrome Custom Tab where the customer logs in to PayPal in a browser window.

> When app switch is enabled, the SDK handles eligibility automatically. If the PayPal app is not installed, the eligibility check fails, or the backend determines the customer is not eligible, the SDK silently falls back to Chrome Custom Tab. No additional error handling is needed — the fallback is invisible to both the merchant and the customer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When app switch is enabled, the SDK checks eligibility automatically. If the PayPal app is not installed, the eligibility check fails, or the backend determines the customer is not eligible, the SDK silently falls back to Chrome Custom Tab. No additional error handling is needed — the fallback is invisible to both the merchant and the customer.
```
🧶

**Option 1: Android App Links (HTTPS) — Recommended**

App Links use HTTPS URLs with domain verification (`android:autoVerify="true"`). This requires you to host a `/.well-known/assetlinks.json` file on your domain.

```xml
<activity
    android:name=".MainActivity"
    android:exported="true"
    android:launchMode="singleTop">

    <!-- Standard launcher intent-filter -->
    <intent-filter>
        <action android:name="android.intent.action.MAIN" />
        <category android:name="android.intent.category.LAUNCHER" />
    </intent-filter>

    <intent-filter android:autoVerify="true">
        <action android:name="android.intent.action.VIEW" />
        <category android:name="android.intent.category.DEFAULT" />
        <category android:name="android.intent.category.BROWSABLE" />
        <data
            android:host="your-app-domain.example.com"
            android:pathPrefix="/"
            android:scheme="https" />
    </intent-filter>
</activity>
```

Use this strategy in SDK requests:

```kotlin
val returnToAppStrategy = ReturnToAppStrategy.AppLink(
    appLinkUrl = "https://your-app-domain.example.com"
)
```

**Option 2: Custom URL Scheme**

> Register a custom URL scheme in your `AndroidManifest.xml`. Your activity needs to use `android:launchMode="singleTop"` so that the OS delivers the return intent to the existing activity instance rather than creating a new one.

Reviewer: The `singleTop` callout is relevant to both integration patterns. We should probably make the same callout in the app links section.

```xml
<activity
    android:name=".MainActivity"
    android:exported="true"
    android:launchMode="singleTop">

    <!-- Standard launcher intent-filter -->
    <intent-filter>
        <action android:name="android.intent.action.MAIN" />
        <category android:name="android.intent.category.LAUNCHER" />
    </intent-filter>

    <!-- Custom URL scheme for returning to app -->
    <intent-filter>
        <action android:name="android.intent.action.VIEW"/>
        <data android:scheme="com.example.myapp"/>
        <category android:name="android.intent.category.DEFAULT"/>
        <category android:name="android.intent.category.BROWSABLE"/>
    </intent-filter>
</activity>
```

Use this strategy in SDK requests:

```kotlin
val returnToAppStrategy = ReturnToAppStrategy.CustomUrlScheme(
    urlScheme = "com.example.myapp"
)
```

> **Architecture warning:** Only the activity that declares these intent-filters can receive deep links back into the host application. If your app has multiple activities, route all SDK flows through the activity that declares the deep link intent-filters.

---

## Initialize the SDK

> Create a `CoreConfig` object with your client ID and environment. Then create a client for each payment method you need. The Demo app creates clients inside ViewModel constructors so they are scoped to the screen lifecycle.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a `CoreConfig` object with your client ID and environment. Then create a client for each payment method you need. The Demo app creates clients inside Jetpack ViewModels so they are scoped to the screen lifecycle.
```
🧶 : technically it being in a ViewModel constructor does not directly tie it to the lifecycle of the host View. The fact that the payment client is owned by the ViewModel is the reason why it is scoped to the screen lifecycle.

```kotlin
// Create configuration (use Environment.LIVE for production)
val coreConfig = CoreConfig(
    clientId = "your-client-id",
    environment = Environment.SANDBOX
)

// Create the card payments client
val cardClient = CardClient(context, coreConfig)

// Create the PayPal web checkout / vault client
val paypalClient = PayPalWebCheckoutClient(context, coreConfig)

// Create the fraud protection data collector (optional)
val payPalDataCollector = PayPalDataCollector(coreConfig)
```

`CoreConfig` parameters:

| Parameter | Type | Required | Description |
|---|---|---|---|
| `clientId` | String | Yes | Your PayPal client ID from the Developer Dashboard |
| `environment` | Environment | No | `Environment.SANDBOX` (default) or `Environment.LIVE` |

---

## Process kill recovery

> Android may stop your app process while the customer is in the external browser completing authentication. When the customer returns, Android launches a fresh process and delivers the deep link intent. If your SDK client objects were destroyed during the process stop, they have no auth state and cannot process the return.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Android may stop your app process while the customer is in the external browser completing authentication. When the customer returns, Android cold starts your app and delivers the deep link intent. If your SDK client objects were destroyed during the process stop, they have no auth state and cannot process the return.
```
🧶 : the technical term here is cold start.

### What the merchant controls

The only merchant-side control is the `appSwitchWhenEligible` flag. Setting it to `true` tells the SDK to attempt app switch when possible. The backend has final authority over eligibility. There is no way to force app switch — the flag is a request, not a guarantee.

---

## Accept a card payment

Use this flow when a customer pays with a credit or debit card. The flow has three steps: your server creates an order, the SDK approves the order with the card, and your server captures or authorizes the order.

**Without 3D Secure:**

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    participant App as Your App
    participant Server as Your Server
    participant SDK as PayPal SDK
    participant PayPal as PayPal

    App->>Server: Create order
    Server->>PayPal: Orders v2 API (create)
    PayPal-->>Server: orderId
    Server-->>App: orderId
    App->>SDK: approveOrder(cardRequest)
    SDK->>PayPal: Confirm payment source (REST API)
    PayPal-->>SDK: Success
    SDK-->>App: CardApproveOrderResult.Success

>     App->>Server: Capture/authorize order

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    App->>Server: Capture/Authorize order
```
🧶

            when (val presentResult = cardClient.presentAuthChallenge(activity, result.authChallenge)) {
                is CardPresentAuthChallengeResult.Success -> {
                    // Do nothing here — wait for the deep link return
                    // (see "Deep Link Return" section below)
                }
                is CardPresentAuthChallengeResult.Failure ->
                    showError(presentResult.error.errorDescription)
            }
        }

        is CardApproveOrderResult.Failure ->
            showError(result.error.errorDescription)
    }
}
```

`SCA` options:

| Value | Behavior |
|---|---|
| `SCA.SCA_WHEN_REQUIRED` | Default. Only triggers 3D Secure authentication when PayPal requires it. |
| `SCA.SCA_ALWAYS` | Triggers 3D Secure authentication even when not required. |

### Handle the result

After `approveOrder` returns `Success`, tell your server to capture or authorize the order. Optionally collect device data to help reduce fraud risk before the server call.

```kotlin
// Optional: collect device data to help reduce fraud risk before capturing
val dataCollectorRequest = PayPalDataCollectorRequest(

>     hasUserLocationConsent = false  // set to true only if user consented to location data

Reviewer: They may already have a `clientMetadataId` from the initial server-side create order call. I can't remember if it's best for them to pass that in, or let the data collector generate a new one that they then pass to the `capture/authorize` call but we should verify.

    override fun onResume() {
        super.onResume()
        // Called when the activity returns to the foreground
        handleReturnIntent(intent)
    }

    override fun onNewIntent(intent: Intent) {
        super.onNewIntent(intent)
        // Called when a new intent arrives at the singleTop activity
        handleReturnIntent(intent)
    }

    private fun handleReturnIntent(intent: Intent) {
        cardClient.finishApproveOrder(intent)?.let { result ->
            // finishApproveOrder returns null if the intent is not for this auth session
            when (result) {
                is CardFinishApproveOrderResult.Success -> {
                    // Authentication succeeded; capture/authorize the order on your server
                    captureOrderOnServer(result.orderId)
                }

                is CardFinishApproveOrderResult.Failure ->
                    showError(result.error.errorDescription)

                CardFinishApproveOrderResult.Canceled ->
                    // Customer canceled 3D Secure; re-enable the pay button
                    resetToIdleState()

                CardFinishApproveOrderResult.NoResult -> {

>                     // This intent was not for this auth session

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                    // The intent is not associated with this CardClient instance
```
nit: Since we don't mention auth sessions anywhere else in this guide (unless I'm mistaken). Auth session is more of an internal detail now.

                    // Re-enable the pay button so the customer can retry
                    resetToIdleState()
                }
            }
        }
    }
}
```

**Jetpack Compose alternative**

If your app uses Jetpack Compose, you can handle deep link returns with composable effects instead of Activity overrides. Place these two effects in the composable that manages your payment flow. Both are needed to cover the two ways Android can deliver the return intent.

```kotlin
@Composable
fun CardPaymentScreen(cardClient: CardClient) {
    val context = LocalContext.current
    val lifecycleOwner = LocalLifecycleOwner.current

    // Handle return when the activity resumes (e.g., returning from Chrome Custom Tab)
    val lifecycleState by lifecycleOwner.lifecycle.currentStateFlow.collectAsState()
    LaunchedEffect(lifecycleState) {
        if (lifecycleState == Lifecycle.State.RESUMED) {

>             val activity = context as? ComponentActivity ?: return@LaunchedEffect
>             activity.intent?.let { intent -> handleFinishApproveOrder(cardClient, intent) }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            val activity = context as? ComponentActivity
            activity?.intent?.let { intent -> handleFinishApproveOrder(cardClient, intent) }
```
🧶 : this feels simpler.

        }
    }

    // Handle return when a new intent is delivered to a singleTop activity
    DisposableEffect(Unit) {

>         val activity = context as? ComponentActivity ?: return@DisposableEffect onDispose {}

Reviewer: I'm not entirely sure what's needed here to simplify this line of code, but the `return@` seems unnecessary and makes the code seem more complex than it is.

        val listener = Consumer<Intent> { newIntent ->
            handleFinishApproveOrder(cardClient, newIntent)
        }
        activity.addOnNewIntentListener(listener)
        onDispose { activity.removeOnNewIntentListener(listener) }
    }

    // ... your payment UI
}

private fun handleFinishApproveOrder(cardClient: CardClient, intent: Intent) {
    cardClient.finishApproveOrder(intent)?.let { result ->
        when (result) {
            is CardFinishApproveOrderResult.Success ->
                captureOrderOnServer(result.orderId)
            is CardFinishApproveOrderResult.Failure ->
                showError(result.error.errorDescription)
            CardFinishApproveOrderResult.Canceled ->
                resetToIdleState()
            CardFinishApproveOrderResult.NoResult ->
                resetToIdleState()
        }
    }
}
```

> > **Understanding `NoResult`:** `NoResult` means the SDK does not have enough information to determine the outcome — for example, if the customer returned to the app without completing authentication, or if the deep link intent was not associated with the current auth session. The payment may or may not have succeeded server-side. When you receive `NoResult`, query the [Orders v2 API](https://developer.paypal.com/docs/api/orders/v2/) from your server to check the current order status before showing an error or retrying.

Reviewer: I'm not opposed to using the term `auth session` externally, but it would probably help if we give it it's own definition in the docs somewhere.

**Test scenarios to verify**

- Card payment succeeds without 3D Secure
- Card payment triggers 3D Secure challenge — customer completes authentication
- Card payment triggers 3D Secure challenge — customer cancels
- PayPal checkout completes via Chrome Custom Tab
- PayPal checkout — customer cancels in Chrome Custom Tab
- Process death recovery — stop the app while authentication is in progress, return to it, and verify the flow completes correctly

**Test app switch scenarios**

App switch requires a physical device with the PayPal app installed. Test the following:

- PayPal checkout with `appSwitchWhenEligible = true` and PayPal app installed — verify the PayPal app opens and the customer can approve the payment
- PayPal checkout with `appSwitchWhenEligible = true` and PayPal app **not** installed — verify the SDK falls back to Chrome Custom Tab without errors
- PayPal vault with `appSwitchWhenEligible = true` — verify the vault flow works through the PayPal app
- App switch return — verify that `finishStart()` / `finishVault()` returns the correct result when the customer returns from the PayPal app

> - Eligibility fallback — if the backend determines the customer is not eligible for app switch, verify the SDK silently falls back to Chrome Custom Tab

Reviewer: This one may be hard for merchants to test.

**Test process death recovery**

1. Start a checkout flow that opens a Chrome Custom Tab or the PayPal app (PayPal web checkout or card 3D Secure).
2. After the Chrome Custom Tab or PayPal app opens, use Android Studio's "Stop app" button to stop the process.
3. Return to the app by selecting the notification or using the back button from the browser or PayPal app.
4. Verify that your `restore()` call rebuilds the SDK client state and that `finishStart()` or `finishApproveOrder()` returns the correct result.

---

## Go live checklist

Before going live, complete the following:

- [ ] Replace `Environment.SANDBOX` with `Environment.LIVE` in your `CoreConfig`
- [ ] Replace your sandbox client ID with your live client ID
- [ ] Verify deep link configuration works in a release build (not just debug)
- [ ] If using App Links, confirm your `assetlinks.json` file is hosted and verified on your live domain
- [ ] Test process death recovery on a physical device running a live-like build
- [ ] Confirm that all result variants (`Success`, `Failure`, `Canceled`, `NoResult`) are handled in every callback

> - [ ] Confirm that nullable return values (`status`, `orderId`, `payerId`) are null-checked before use

Reviewer: nit: This should be compiler enforced on the Kotlin-side, though Java null checks may still be required. Ideally our API should remove the possibility of nullability as well, but we'll have to wait until we can make breaking changes to address those issues with our API.

# PayPal Android SDK Integration Guide

## Overview

> This guide shows you how to accept card payments and PayPal payments in your Android app using the PayPal Android SDK. You learn how to set up the SDK, process one-time payments, and vault payment methods for future use. Before you begin, review the Prerequisites section to make sure your environment is ready.

Reviewer: It would be nice to hyperlink to the Prerequisites section.

<PlaceholderImage description="End-to-end flow diagram showing the three actors: your Android app (SDK), your server, and PayPal APIs. Arrows show: app collects payment details → app calls SDK → SDK contacts PayPal → PayPal returns result to SDK → SDK returns result to app → app calls your server to capture/authorize." />

---

## How the PayPal Android SDK works

> The SDK handles the client-side portion of your payment integration. For card payments, the SDK submits card data directly to PayPal using encrypted channels and returns a result your server uses to capture or authorize the order. For PayPal payments, the SDK opens a Chrome Custom Tab (or the PayPal app if installed) so the customer can log in and approve the payment. When the customer finishes, PayPal redirects them back to your app using a deep link. Your server then captures or authorizes the approved order using the Orders v2 API.

Reviewer: In the places where we mention Chrome Custom Tab or PayPal app launch, I wonder if it would make more sense to always mention app switch first to give it priority in the onboarding process.

- For card vaulting or PayPal vaulting: a server that can create setup tokens and payment tokens (see [PayPal vaulting documentation](https://developer.paypal.com/docs/))
- Android Studio with a project targeting Android SDK 23 or higher
- Kotlin or Java project (the SDK supports both languages)

---

## Project setup

### Add SDK dependencies

Add the modules you need to your app-level `build.gradle` file. Use the current release version.

```groovy
dependencies {
    // Required: add at least one payment module

    // For card payments
    implementation 'com.paypal.android:card-payments:2.3.0'

    // For PayPal web checkout and PayPal vaulting
    implementation 'com.paypal.android:paypal-web-payments:2.3.0'

    // Optional: collect device data to help reduce fraud risk
    implementation 'com.paypal.android:fraud-protection:2.3.0'

    // Optional: PayPal payment button UI components
    implementation 'com.paypal.android:payment-buttons:2.3.0'
}
```

All modules are published to Maven Central under the `com.paypal.android` group.

**Snapshot builds**

> To test upcoming features before they ship, use snapshot builds. First, add the snapshot repository to your top-level `build.gradle`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you'd like to test upcoming features before they ship, use snapshot builds. First, add the snapshot repository to your top-level `build.gradle`:
```
This feels more natural tonally. The number of our merchants who use snapshot builds should be an extreme minority.

```groovy
repositories {
    maven {
        url 'https://central.sonatype.com/repository/maven-snapshots/'
    }
}
```

Then reference the latest snapshot version:

```groovy
implementation 'com.paypal.android:card-payments:2.3.0-SNAPSHOT'
```

### Configure deep links

> The SDK opens a Chrome Custom Tab or the PayPal app for certain flows (PayPal web checkout, PayPal vaulting, 3D Secure card authentication). When the customer finishes, PayPal redirects them back to your app using a deep link. Configure your app to receive this redirect.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The SDK opens a Chrome Custom Tab or the PayPal app for certain flows (PayPal web checkout, PayPal vaulting, 3D Secure card authentication). When the customer finishes, PayPal redirects them back to your app using a deep link. You'll need to configure your app to receive this redirect.
```
Another tonal change. Mostly to highlight the importance and criticality of configuring the host application to receive deep links.

> The SDK supports two return URL strategies. Choose one or configure both as a fallback:

Reviewer: After our last refactor I'm not sure if merchants can still configure a "fallback" scenario when app links don't work. We haven't discussed the need for this feature, so we took it out. It didn't seem necessary and was somewhat out of scope for the completion of the app switch feature.

> **Option 1: Custom URL Scheme**

Reviewer: Similar to how we should more heavily promote app switch as a primary option, App Links would be a better Option 1 to give it priority during the onboarding process.

Register a custom URL scheme in your `AndroidManifest.xml`. Your activity needs to use `android:launchMode="singleTop"` so that the OS delivers the return intent to the existing activity instance rather than creating a new one.

```xml
<activity
    android:name=".MainActivity"
    android:exported="true"
    android:launchMode="singleTop">

    <!-- Standard launcher intent-filter -->
    <intent-filter>
        <action android:name="android.intent.action.MAIN" />
        <category android:name="android.intent.category.LAUNCHER" />
    </intent-filter>

    <!-- Custom URL scheme for returning to app -->
    <intent-filter>
        <action android:name="android.intent.action.VIEW"/>

>         <data android:scheme="com.example.myapp"/>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        <data android:scheme="com.example.your-app-domain"/>
```
If we want to be consistent with the app links example, we should use reverse DNS convention for the custom url scheme.

        <category android:name="android.intent.category.DEFAULT"/>
        <category android:name="android.intent.category.BROWSABLE"/>
    </intent-filter>
</activity>
```

> Use this scheme as your `fallbackUrlScheme` in SDK requests: `"com.example.myapp"`.

Reviewer: Again the property `fallbackUrlScheme` no longer exists.

**Option 2: Android App Links (HTTPS)**

App Links use HTTPS URLs with domain verification (`android:autoVerify="true"`). This requires you to host a `/.well-known/assetlinks.json` file on your domain.

```xml
<intent-filter android:autoVerify="true">
    <action android:name="android.intent.action.VIEW" />
    <category android:name="android.intent.category.DEFAULT" />
    <category android:name="android.intent.category.BROWSABLE" />
    <data
        android:host="your-app-domain.example.com"
        android:pathPrefix="/"
        android:scheme="https" />
</intent-filter>
```

> Use your HTTPS URL as the `appLinkUrl` in SDK requests: `"https://your-app-domain.example.com"`.

Reviewer: These examples will need to be updated to use the new `ReturnToAppStrategy` parameter.

> **Architecture warning:** Only the activity that declares these intent-filters can receive deep links back into the host application. If your app has multiple activities, route all SDK flows through the activity that declares the deep link intent-filters.

---

## Initialize the SDK

Create a `CoreConfig` object with your client ID and environment. Then create a client for each payment method you need.

```kotlin
// Create configuration (use Environment.LIVE for production)
val coreConfig = CoreConfig(
    clientId = "your-client-id",
    environment = Environment.SANDBOX
)

// Create the card payments client

> val cardClient = CardClient(context, coreConfig)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
val cardClient = CardClient(applicationContext, coreConfig)
```
Using `applicationContext` as an example is less restrictive, but this is an opinion and not a requirement for the docs to be correct (they already are).

// Create the PayPal web checkout / vault client
val paypalClient = PayPalWebCheckoutClient(context, coreConfig)

// Create the fraud protection data collector (optional)
val payPalDataCollector = PayPalDataCollector(coreConfig)
```

`CoreConfig` parameters:

| Parameter | Type | Required | Description |
|---|---|---|---|
| `clientId` | String | Yes | Your PayPal client ID from the Developer Dashboard |
| `environment` | Environment | No | `Environment.SANDBOX` (default) or `Environment.LIVE` |

---

> ## Process death recovery

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Process kill recovery
```
Google does tend to use the phrase "process kill" more frequently than "process death" ([source](https://developer.android.com/guide/components/activities/process-lifecycle)).

Android may stop your app process while the customer is in the external browser completing authentication. When the customer returns, Android launches a fresh process and delivers the deep link intent. If your SDK client objects were destroyed during the process stop, they have no auth state and cannot process the return.

The SDK provides `instanceState` and `restore()` on both `CardClient` and `PayPalWebCheckoutClient` to handle this case.

**Save state before leaving the app:**

```kotlin
// In your Activity, ViewModel, or wherever you manage SDK clients
val savedCardClientState = cardClient.instanceState
// Persist this string (for example, in SavedStateHandle or SharedPreferences)
savedStateHandle["card_client_state"] = savedCardClientState
```

**Restore state after process death:**

```kotlin
// When recreating your client
val cardClient = CardClient(context, coreConfig)
savedStateHandle.get<String>("card_client_state")?.let { savedState ->
    cardClient.restore(savedState)
}
```

The same `instanceState` / `restore()` pattern applies to `PayPalWebCheckoutClient`.

---

## Demo app architecture

> The [Demo app](Demo/) included in this repository uses Jetpack Compose Navigation with a single entry-point activity. All SDK flows live within `MainActivity`, which hosts a `NavHost`. Individual payment screens are composable destinations. Deep link returns arrive at `MainActivity` and are dispatched to the active screen.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [Demo app](Demo/) included in this repository uses Jetpack Compose Navigation with a single entry-point activity. All SDK flows live within `MainActivity`, which contains a `NavHost`. Individual payment screens are composable destinations. Deep link returns arrive at `MainActivity` and are dispatched to the active screen.
```
Verbage nit. Best to avoid overloaded terms to lessen the cognitive load on the reader.

```kotlin
// Optional: collect device data to help reduce fraud risk before capturing
val dataCollectorRequest = PayPalDataCollectorRequest(
    hasUserLocationConsent = false  // set to true only if user consented to location data
)
val clientMetadataId = payPalDataCollector.collectDeviceData(context, dataCollectorRequest)

// Tell your server to capture/authorize
// Pass clientMetadataId in the PayPal-Client-Metadata-Id header on your server request
yourServer.captureOrder(orderId, clientMetadataId)
```

### Deep link return

When 3D Secure authentication is required, the SDK opens a Chrome Custom Tab. After the customer completes authentication, PayPal redirects them back to your app using the `returnUrl` you provided.

Override `onResume()` and `onNewIntent()` in your activity to handle the return. Both are needed because Android can deliver the intent in two ways depending on whether the activity was in the foreground.

```kotlin
class MainActivity : ComponentActivity() {

    override fun onResume() {
        super.onResume()
        // Called when the activity returns to the foreground

>         handleReturnIntent(intent)

Reviewer: This is better since it doesn't require those utility methods from our Demo app to work, but we should have a Jetpack compose example somewhere in the docs. For new apps, this integration pattern will be considered obsolete and can lead to some bad architectural decisions that explode into technical debt as merchant apps mature.

                showError(result.error.errorDescription)

            CardFinishApproveOrderResult.Canceled ->
                // Customer canceled 3D Secure; re-enable the pay button
                resetToIdleState()

            CardFinishApproveOrderResult.NoResult -> {
                // This intent was not for this auth session
                // Re-enable the pay button so the customer can retry
                resetToIdleState()
            }
        }
    }
}
```

### What's next

After capturing or authorizing the order on your server, show a confirmation to the customer. The card payment flow is complete.

---

## Vault a card

Vaulting stores a card as a reusable payment method. Use this flow when you want to charge a customer in the future without asking them to re-enter their card details.

The vault flow has three steps: your server creates a setup token, the SDK attaches the card to the setup token, and your server creates a payment token from the setup token.

### What you'll do

Collect card details, call `cardClient.vault()`, handle any 3D Secure challenge, then tell your server to create a payment token.

### Server call

> Your server creates a setup token and returns the setup token ID. See the [PayPal vaulting documentation](https://developer.paypal.com/docs/) for the server-side implementation.

Reviewer: We may need to correct this PayPal vaulting documentation link. It just points to developer.paypal.com/docs and also it's attempting to link the reader to PayPal docs, but we're in the Card section.

            }
        }

        is CardVaultResult.Failure ->
            showError(result.error.errorDescription)
    }
}
```

### Handle the result

After `vault` returns `Success`, tell your server to create a payment token from the setup token ID.

```kotlin
fun createPaymentToken(setupTokenId: String) {
    // Call your server to create a payment token
    // Your server calls the PayPal payment-tokens API
    yourServer.createPaymentToken(setupTokenId)
}
```

### Deep link return

Handle the deep link return with the same dual-effect pattern used in the card payment flow.

```kotlin
import com.paypal.android.cardpayments.CardFinishVaultResult

fun completeAuthChallenge(intent: Intent) {
    cardClient.finishVault(intent)?.let { result ->
        when (result) {
            is CardFinishVaultResult.Success -> {
                val setupTokenStatus = result.status  // nullable — check before use
                createPaymentTokenOnServer(result.setupTokenId)
            }

            is CardFinishVaultResult.Failure ->
                showError(result.error.errorDescription)

            CardFinishVaultResult.Canceled ->

>                 resetToIdleState()

Reviewer: This is going to be highly dependent on merchant UI. If we're talking Demo app though, we're basically removing the loading spinner from the "Submit" button, which allows the user to launch the flow again in the case of Cancelation (or if there was no result).

Use this flow when a customer pays with their PayPal account. The SDK opens a Chrome Custom Tab or the PayPal app (if installed and the customer opts in) for the customer to log in and approve the payment.

<PlaceholderImage description="Sequence diagram for PayPal web checkout: 1) App calls server to create order → server returns orderId. 2) App calls PayPalWebCheckoutClient.start() → SDK opens Chrome Custom Tab or PayPal app → customer logs in and approves. 3) PayPal deep-links back to app → app calls finishStart() → SDK returns orderId and payerId. 4) App calls server to capture/authorize." />

### What you'll do

Call `paypalClient.start()` with an order ID, then handle the deep link return to get the approval result.

### Server call

Your server creates a PayPal order and returns the order ID. See the [Orders v2 API](https://developer.paypal.com/docs/api/orders/v2/).

### SDK method call

```kotlin
import com.paypal.android.paypalwebpayments.PayPalWebCheckoutRequest
import com.paypal.android.paypalwebpayments.PayPalWebCheckoutFundingSource
import com.paypal.android.paypalwebpayments.PayPalPresentAuthChallengeResult

val checkoutRequest = PayPalWebCheckoutRequest(

>     orderId = orderId,                                           // from your server
>     fundingSource = PayPalWebCheckoutFundingSource.PAYPAL,       // PAYPAL, PAYPAL_CREDIT, or PAY_LATER
>     appSwitchWhenEligible = true,                                // switch to PayPal app if installed
>     appLinkUrl = "https://your-app-domain.example.com",          // HTTPS return URL (or null)
>     fallbackUrlScheme = "com.example.myapp"                      // custom scheme fallback (or null)
> )

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// for deep linking with app links
val appLinkStrategy = ReturnToAppStrategy.AppLink("https://your-app-domain.example.com")

// for deep linking with custom url scheme
val customUrlSchemeStrategy = ReturnToAppStrategy.CustomUrlScheme("com.example.myapp")

val checkoutRequest = PayPalWebCheckoutRequest(
    orderId = orderId,                                           // from your server
    fundingSource = PayPalWebCheckoutFundingSource.PAYPAL,       // PAYPAL, PAYPAL_CREDIT, or PAY_LATER
    appSwitchWhenEligible = true,                                // switch to PayPal app if installed
    returnToAppStrategy = appLinkStrategy ?: customUrlSchemeStrategy // choose the strategy that works best for your app
)
```
We changed this recently to make it more clear and have merchants explicitly declare the deep link strategy they want the SDK to use.

paypalClient.start(activity, checkoutRequest) { startResult ->
    when (startResult) {
        is PayPalPresentAuthChallengeResult.Success -> {
            // Chrome Custom Tab or PayPal app opened
            // Do nothing here — wait for the deep link return
        }

        is PayPalPresentAuthChallengeResult.Failure ->
            showError(startResult.error.errorDescription)
    }
}
```

`PayPalWebCheckoutFundingSource` options:

| Value | Description |
|---|---|
| `PAYPAL` | Standard PayPal checkout (default) |
| `PAYPAL_CREDIT` | PayPal Credit — revolving line of credit for eligible customers |
| `PAY_LATER` | Pay Later — short-term, interest-free payments for eligible customers |

### Handle the result

After the flow completes, capture or authorize the order on your server.

```kotlin
// After finishStart returns Success
fun capturePayPalOrder(orderId: String?) {
    if (orderId == null) {
        showError("Order ID is missing")
        return
    }

>     yourServer.captureOrder(orderId)

Reviewer 2: `yourServer.captureOrder(orderId)` this format is nice, to tell merchant it needs to be performed in their server 👍

                resetToIdleState()
        }
    }
}
```

### What's next

After capturing the order, show a payment confirmation to the customer. The PayPal checkout flow is complete.

---

## Vault a PayPal account

Vaulting a PayPal account stores it as a reusable payment method. Use this flow to save a customer's PayPal account for future payments.

### What you'll do

Call `paypalClient.vault()` with a setup token, then handle the deep link return.

### Server call

Your server creates a PayPal setup token and returns the setup token ID.

### SDK method call

```kotlin
import com.paypal.android.paypalwebpayments.PayPalWebVaultRequest
import com.paypal.android.paypalwebpayments.PayPalPresentAuthChallengeResult

val vaultRequest = PayPalWebVaultRequest(
    setupTokenId = setupTokenId,                                 // from your server
    appSwitchWhenEligible = true,                                // switch to PayPal app if installed
    appLinkUrl = "https://your-app-domain.example.com",          // HTTPS return URL (or null)
    fallbackUrlScheme = "com.example.myapp"                      // custom scheme fallback (or null)

> )

Reviewer: We can update this snippet with the new `ReturnToAppStrategy` type as well.

Reviewer 2: `ReturnToAppStrategy` is not available in 2.3.0
